
**What is ZooKeeper?**

ZooKeeper is a centralized service for maintaining configuration information, naming, providing distributed synchronization, and providing group services. All of these kinds of services are used in some form or another by distributed applications. Each time they are implemented there is a lot of work that goes into fixing the bugs and race conditions that are inevitable. Because of the difficulty of implementing these kinds of services, applications initially usually skimp on them, which make them brittle in the presence of change and difficult to manage. Even when done correctly, different implementations of these services lead to management complexity when the applications are deployed.

**ZooKeeper Overview**

ZooKeeper allows distributed processes to coordinate with each other through a shared hierarchical name space of data registers (we call these registers znodes), much like a file system. Unlike normal file systems ZooKeeper provides its clients with high throughput, low latency, highly available, strictly ordered access to the znodes. The performance aspects of ZooKeeper allow it to be used in large distributed systems. The reliability aspects prevent it from becoming the single point of failure in big systems. Its strict ordering allows sophisticated synchronization primitives to be implemented at the client.

The name space provided by ZooKeeper is much like that of a standard file system. A name is a sequence of path elements separated by a slash ("/"). Every znode in ZooKeeper's name space is identified by a path. And every znode has a parent whose path is a prefix of the znode with one less element; the exception to this rule is root ("/") which has no parent. Also, exactly like standard file systems, a znode cannot be deleted if it has any children.

The main differences between ZooKeeper and standard file systems are that every znode can have data associated with it (every file can also be a directory and vice-versa) and znodes are limited to the amount of data that they can have. ZooKeeper was designed to store coordination data: status information, configuration, location information, etc. This kind of meta-information is usually measured in kilobytes, if not bytes. ZooKeeper has a built-in sanity check of 1M, to prevent it from being used as a large data store, but in general it is used to store much smaller pieces of data.
